In this video, we are gonna configure
a message converter with JMS messages.
And, this is a kind of like an
abstraction that Spring gives us. And,
what we wanna do is that I previously
mentioned about having some flexibility
in our messaging. So, we wanna be
setting up a text message but we want
that JMS text message to have a JSON
payload of the object that we're working
with. So, to do that we need to set up
this message converter. So, I'm gonna
come in here and create a new class
under config.
And, we'll just call this JmsConfig
since it is gonna be specific to
working with JMS or just JmsConfig like
so. We'll be adding this. And, this of
course is going to be a @Configuration.
Now, what we wanna do is come in here
and we will say public.
We want a message converter and in this
case, we want the type to be we want
to be using this JMS support. And, I think
to be honest probably we can get away
with using either one. But since we're in
a JMS specific environment in this case,
I'm gonna go ahead and demonstrate using
the JMS message converter. So, that is
what we wanna be working with here. So,
I'm gonna go ahead and say that and
we will use MessageConverter like so.
And here, we wanna say mapping
and we want this Jackson to messaging
converter. Again, you can see that is
coming out and that is the JMS support
converter. So, that package is important.
So, we will go ahead and implement this
and we'll call that a converter equals
new MappingJackson2MessageConverter. And, this
is going to be utilizing the Jackson
JSON library underneath. And of course,
we'll wanna return that, return that
converter like so.
A couple of  things that we wanna set here
converter.setTargetType.
And here, we wanna say MessageType
not BYTES but we wanna say TEXT
like so.
Now, we wanna set the type property name. And here, we are gonna do, I'm just go type. So, what's
gonna be happening. Remember, we talked
about the JMS properties. So, we are gonna
be setting a property name of the
Type so Spring can decode this. So, this
all gonna be working within Spring.
And once we get the setup, Spring is
gonna make our lives a lot easier
because it will use it both for
serialization of the message when we put
it on the queue. But Spring is gonna
be smart enough to use it as we
pull it off the queue as well. But as far
as I know at this point in time, Spring
Boot does not provide an auto
configuration of this. But I do wanna
point out if we come in here. And, take a
look at this option here, I always
when you're setting up configurations
like this, I'll always go ahead and take
a look at the class there. There is Java
doc on this. You can see what's going on
with this class. The main things that we
set up here, you can see that this is
gonna get an object mapper. So
Spring is gonna be providing that for
us. Here is the target type. Very
important here that is saying that it
can be bytes or text. So, we are using the
text, text implementation of it.
Optionally, you could use the bytes
implementation. And, remember we talked
about those JMS messages. We are using a
JMS text message under the cover. But
we're kind of abstracting that by
setting up this technique where we are
sending a text message. But we are gonna
be sending that JMS payload as a text
message. And optionally, we could do this
as a bytes message to arguably maybe a
little bit more efficient doing it as a
bytes message. Could argue that point out.
I will stipulate that. And then finally
here on line 146 is another important
note its specifying the JMS message
property that carries the type of that
property. So, this is also important for
us to extract that from that. So, that is
gonna help Spring deserialize that. So,
just to recap, what we did here. We
created a new class called JmsConfig,
annotated it on line 12 there with
@Configuration. And then, on line 15
you can see it the @Bean annotation saying that
I am going to have a bean called
MessageConverter in the Spring Context.
And, that it's going to be a
MappingJackson2MessageConverter
specifically for working with the
Jackson JSON library. And, what Spring is
gonna be doing underneath the covers
when we send a message to JMS, Spring
is gonna convert that message that we
send to a JMS text message and the
payload is gonna be taking that Java
object and converting that over to
a JSON payload. So, that that's what
this configuration is doing. It's
enabling our Spring instance to take JMS
messages and flip those two adjacent
message. And then, it can read that JMS
message as a JMS text message and
convert it back to a Java object. So, in
the up committing us, we'll be taking a
look at sending messages and then also
receiving messages. But, this little piece
of configuration here makes our lives a
lot easier and a lot simpler. Because a
lot of the conversion between a JMS
message and from a Java POJO into
serialized JSON into a JMS message. This
is all abstracting that for us and makes
our lives as developers much much easier.